docs/proof-structure.md, before:

# Farewell Delivery Proof Structure

This document explains the complete Farewell delivery proof architecture, including the zk-email proof format, contract verification flow, and data structures that bridge the off-chain claimer tool with on-chain verification.

## Overview

The Farewell protocol uses a Groth16 zero-knowledge proof (via the zk-email framework) to prove that:
1. A claimer actually sent an email to a recipient
2. The recipient email address matches the on-chain commitment (Poseidon hash)
3. The message content matches the stored content hash

This eliminates the need for centralized delivery tracking while maintaining privacy.

## End-to-End Flow

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        FAREWELL MESSAGE LIFECYCLE                        │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                          │
│  1. MESSAGE CREATION (Sender on Farewell UI)                            │
│     └─> Encrypts message → Stores recipients[].emailHash (Poseidon)     │
│         Stores payloadContentHash = keccak256(decrypted content)        │
│                                                                          │
│  2. MESSAGE RELEASE (After grace period, Council votes)                 │
│     └─> Contract marks user deceased                                   │
│         Message becomes claimable                                       │
│                                                                          │
│  3. CLAIM & RETRIEVE (Claimer on Farewell UI)                           │
│     └─> Calls claim() → retrieve()                                      │
│         Downloads claim package JSON                                    │
│                                                                          │
│  4. SEND & PROVE (Claimer tool: farewell-claimer)                       │
│     └─> Sends email to recipient with Farewell-Hash                     │
│         Attaches claim package JSON to the email                        │
│         Saves .eml file                                                 │
│         Generates proof structure (placeholder Groth16)                 │
│                                                                          │
│  5. PROOF SUBMISSION (Claimer on Farewell UI)                           │
│     └─> Uploads DeliveryProofJson for each recipient                    │
│         Calls _verifyZkEmailProof() for each                            │
│         Bitmap updated to track proven recipients                       │
│                                                                          │
│  6. REWARD CLAIM (Claimer on Farewell UI)                               │
│     └─> When all recipients proven (bitmap complete)                    │
│         Calls claimReward() to withdraw ETH                             │
│                                                                          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Claim Package (Input to Claimer)

The claim package is downloaded from the Farewell UI and contains the encrypted message and verification data:

```json
{
  "type": "farewell-claim-package",
  "owner": "0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890",
  "messageIndex": 0,
  "recipients": ["alice@example.com", "bob@example.com"],
  "skShare": "0x75554596171405...",
  "encryptedPayload": "0x...",
  "contentHash": "0x1234...",
  "subject": "Farewell Message"
}
```

**Field Descriptions:**
- `type`: Must be `"farewell-claim-package"` (identifies format to claimer)
- `owner`: Message creator's wallet address
- `messageIndex`: ID of the message within owner's message list
- `recipients`: Array of email addresses (one entry per recipient)
- `skShare`: Hex-encoded on-chain half of AES-128 key (generated randomly)
- `encryptedPayload`: AES-128-GCM packed format: `0x` + IV(12 bytes) + ciphertext + GCM-tag
- `contentHash`: keccak256(decrypted message content) — stored on-chain for verification
- `subject`: Email subject line

## Decryption Flow (Recipient Side)

The claimer does NOT decrypt the message — only the **recipient** can, using their off-chain secret (s').

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│         MESSAGE DECRYPTION (farewell-decrypter / web UI)          │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                  │
│  claim_package.skShare   (on-chain half, in JSON attachment)     │
│  +                                                               │
│  recipient.s'            (off-chain half, from sender)           │
│  ═════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════  │
│  sk = skShare XOR s'     (AES-128 decryption key)               │
│                                                                  │
│  sk + encryptedPayload (AES-128-GCM)                             │
│  └─> Decrypt at farewell.world/decrypt/ or CLI tool            │
│      Format: 0x + IV(12 bytes) + ciphertext + GCM-tag          │
│      ═════════════════════════════════════════════              │
│      Yields: plaintext message content                          │
│                                                                  │
│  keccak256(plaintext) == contentHash ✓                           │
│  (recipient can verify against on-chain stored hash)             │
│                                                                  │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Public Signals (What the Proof Proves)

The zk-email circuit produces a Groth16 proof with 3 public signals:

```
publicSignals[0] = Poseidon(recipient_email_normalized)
                   Recipients: alice@example.com → Poseidon("alice@example.com")
                   (normalized: lowercased, whitespace stripped)

publicSignals[1] = DKIM_Key_Hash
                   SHA3-256(dkim_public_key_from_email_header)
                   Proves email was signed by a trusted DKIM key
                   Verified against trusted DKIM registry on-chain

publicSignals[2] = Content_Hash
                   keccak256(email_body_content)
                   Must match claim_package.contentHash
                   Embedded in email as Farewell-Hash marker
```

## Contract Verification

When the `_verifyZkEmailProof()` function is called:

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│          CONTRACT VERIFICATION FLOW                            │
├────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                │
│  Input: DeliveryProofJson {                                   │
│    owner, messageIndex, recipients[], proof {pA,pB,pC,...}   │
│  }                                                             │
│                                                                │
│  1. Load on-chain message m = messages[owner][messageIndex]   │
│                                                                │
│  2. For each recipient in recipients[]:                       │
│     ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐  │
│     │ a. publicSignals[0] == m.recipientEmailHashes[i]?   │  │
│     │    (Proves correct recipient)                        │  │
│     │                                                      │  │
│     │ b. Is publicSignals[1] in trustedDkimKeys registry?  │  │
│     │    (Proves authentic DKIM signature)                │  │
│     │                                                      │  │
│     │ c. publicSignals[2] == m.payloadContentHash?        │  │
│     │    (Proves correct message content)                 │  │
│     │                                                      │  │
│     │ d. Verify(proof, verificationKey) == true?          │  │
│     │    (Proves zk-email circuit integrity)              │  │
│     │                                                      │  │
│     │ If ALL checks pass:                                 │  │
│     │   ✓ Set provenRecipients bitmap bit i to 1         │  │
│     │   ✓ Emit ProofVerified(owner, messageIndex, i)     │  │
│     └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘  │
│                                                                │
│  3. When all N recipients proven (provenRecipients == 2^N-1): │
│     ✓ claimReward() becomes callable                          │
│     ✓ Initiates reward transfer                               │
│                                                                │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## DeliveryProofJson Format

The proof JSON uploaded to the contract for each recipient:

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "type": "farewell-delivery-proof",
  "owner": "0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890",
  "messageIndex": 0,
  "recipients": [
    {
      "recipientIndex": 0,
      "email": "alice@example.com",
      "proof": {
        "pA": ["0x...", "0x..."],
        "pB": [["0x...", "0x..."], ["0x...", "0x..."]],
        "pC": ["0x...", "0x..."],
        "publicSignals": [
          "0x1234...",
          "0x5678...",
          "0xabcd..."
        ]
      }
    },
    {
      "recipientIndex": 1,
      "email": "bob@example.com",
      "proof": {
        "pA": ["0x...", "0x..."],
        "pB": [["0x...", "0x..."], ["0x...", "0x..."]],
        "pC": ["0x...", "0x..."],
        "publicSignals": [
          "0x1234...",
          "0x5678...",
          "0xabcd..."
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "metadata": {
    "generatedAt": "2026-02-24T15:30:45.123Z",
    "toolVersion": "farewell-claimer v1.0.0"
  }
}
```

**Field Descriptions:**
- `pA`, `pB`, `pC`: Groth16 proof elliptic curve points (BN254)
- `publicSignals`: The 3 public signals output by the circuit
- `recipientIndex`: Position in the original recipients[] array
- `email`: Recipient email address (for reference and verification)

## Multi-Recipient Bitmap

The contract tracks proof completion using a bitmap:

```
N = number of recipients in message
provenRecipients = uint256 bitmap

For each proven recipient at index i:
  ┌─ Set bit i to 1
  │
  provenRecipients |= (1 << i)

Example: 3 recipients, all proven
  Bit:  0 1 2
       ├─────┤
  Value: 1 1 1  →  uint256(0b111) = 7

Reward claimable when:
  provenRecipients == (2^N - 1)

  For N=3: (1 << 3) - 1 = 0b111 = 7 ✓
```

## Current Status: Proof-of-Concept

**Important:** The current implementation is a proof-of-concept with placeholder values:

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│               CURRENT POC IMPLEMENTATION                     │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                              │
│  ⚠ Groth16 Proof (pA, pB, pC): All zeros (placeholder)    │
│    When implemented: Real zk-email circuit output          │
│                                                              │
│  ⚠ Recipient Hash (publicSignals[0]):                      │
│    Current: SHA3-256(email_normalized)                     │
│    When implemented: Poseidon(email_normalized)            │
│                                                              │
│  ⚠ DKIM Key Hash (publicSignals[1]): All zeros (placeholder)
│    When implemented: SHA3-256(dkim_public_key)             │
│                                                              │
│  ✓ Content Hash (publicSignals[2]): Real value             │
│    Already: keccak256(decrypted_payload)                   │
│                                                              │
│  ⚠ On-Chain Verifier: Not deployed                         │
│    Contract has placeholder _verifyZkEmailProof()          │
│    When implemented: Full Groth16 pairing check            │
│                                                              │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Integration with zk-email Circuit

When the real zk-email circuit is integrated:

1. **Input (.eml file)**: Full email with headers and MIME body
2. **Circuit Logic**:
   - Extract DKIM-Signature header
   - Verify DKIM signature against sender's public key
   - Extract and normalize TO field (recipient email)
   - Hash recipient email with Poseidon
   - Extract email body
   - Verify Farewell-Hash marker matches content hash
3. **Output (Public Signals)**:
   - publicSignals[0]: Poseidon hash of recipient email
   - publicSignals[1]: SHA3-256 of DKIM public key
   - publicSignals[2]: Content hash from Farewell-Hash marker
4. **Proof Generation**: Groth16 proof (pA, pB, pC) proving knowledge of the witness

## Data Flow Through System

```
┌──────────────┐
│ Farewell UI  │ Sends encrypted message → stores emailHashes
│ (Web App)    │ and payloadContentHash on-chain
└───────┬──────┘
        │ [1] Claim package JSON
        ↓
┌──────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ farewell-claimer (Python CLI)            │
│ [2] Send email to recipient              │
│     (attaches claim package JSON)        │
│ [3] Save .eml file                       │
│ [4] Generate proof structure             │
└───────┬──────────────────────────────────┘
        │ [5] DeliveryProofJson + .eml
        ↓
┌──────────────┐
│ Farewell UI  │ [6] Upload proof JSON
│ (Web App)    │ [7] Call _verifyZkEmailProof() on-chain
│              │ [8] Bitmap updated for recipient
└───────┬──────┘
        │ After all recipients proven
        ↓
┌──────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Smart Contract (Farewell.sol)            │
│ [9] claimReward() transfers ETH          │
└──────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Security Properties

**Proven:**
- Email was signed by a DKIM-verified server (no forgery possible)
- Recipient email matches on-chain commitment (no address spoofing)
- Message content matches stored hash (no tampering possible)
- Claimer performed actual delivery (attestation of delivery)

**Not Proven:**
- Recipient actually read or understood the message
- No coercion or fraud in message creation
- No key material compromise during transit

## Related Documentation

- [Claimer User Guide](./claimer-guide.md) — Step-by-step workflow
- [farewell-core Protocol](https://github.com/farewell-world/farewell-core) — Smart contract implementation
- [zk.email Documentation](https://docs.zk.email/) — Circuit design and verification

Commit message:

docs: restructure documentation with protocol spec, API reference, and client guide
- Create docs/protocol.md: full protocol specification with ASCII diagrams
  covering lifecycle, encryption, key sharing, FHE, claiming, rewards, council
- Create docs/contract-api.md: complete API reference for every function,
  event, struct, constant, and error message in Farewell.sol
- Create docs/building-a-client.md: adapted from private repo guide with
  TypeScript examples, replacing private paths with public equivalents
- Rewrite README.md: ~200 lines, scannable, abbreviated API tables, links
  to all new docs, added license badge and farewell-decrypter
- Update status from "Proof-of-concept" to "Beta" across all files
- Update Farewell.sol @title comment to remove "POC"
- Update CLAUDE.md with new docs in repo structure and sync instructions
- Fix cross-links in proof-structure.md Related Documentation section

docs/proof-structure.md, after:

# Farewell Delivery Proof Structure

This document explains the complete Farewell delivery proof architecture, including the zk-email proof format, contract verification flow, and data structures that bridge the off-chain claimer tool with on-chain verification.

## Overview

The Farewell protocol uses a Groth16 zero-knowledge proof (via the zk-email framework) to prove that:
1. A claimer actually sent an email to a recipient
2. The recipient email address matches the on-chain commitment (Poseidon hash)
3. The message content matches the stored content hash

This eliminates the need for centralized delivery tracking while maintaining privacy.

## End-to-End Flow

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        FAREWELL MESSAGE LIFECYCLE                        │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                          │
│  1. MESSAGE CREATION (Sender on Farewell UI)                            │
│     └─> Encrypts message → Stores recipients[].emailHash (Poseidon)     │
│         Stores payloadContentHash = keccak256(decrypted content)        │
│                                                                          │
│  2. MESSAGE RELEASE (After grace period, Council votes)                 │
│     └─> Contract marks user deceased                                   │
│         Message becomes claimable                                       │
│                                                                          │
│  3. CLAIM & RETRIEVE (Claimer on Farewell UI)                           │
│     └─> Calls claim() → retrieve()                                      │
│         Downloads claim package JSON                                    │
│                                                                          │
│  4. SEND & PROVE (Claimer tool: farewell-claimer)                       │
│     └─> Sends email to recipient with Farewell-Hash                     │
│         Attaches claim package JSON to the email                        │
│         Saves .eml file                                                 │
│         Generates proof structure (placeholder Groth16)                 │
│                                                                          │
│  5. PROOF SUBMISSION (Claimer on Farewell UI)                           │
│     └─> Uploads DeliveryProofJson for each recipient                    │
│         Calls _verifyZkEmailProof() for each                            │
│         Bitmap updated to track proven recipients                       │
│                                                                          │
│  6. REWARD CLAIM (Claimer on Farewell UI)                               │
│     └─> When all recipients proven (bitmap complete)                    │
│         Calls claimReward() to withdraw ETH                             │
│                                                                          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Claim Package (Input to Claimer)

The claim package is downloaded from the Farewell UI and contains the encrypted message and verification data:

```json
{
  "type": "farewell-claim-package",
  "owner": "0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890",
  "messageIndex": 0,
  "recipients": ["alice@example.com", "bob@example.com"],
  "skShare": "0x75554596171405...",
  "encryptedPayload": "0x...",
  "contentHash": "0x1234...",
  "subject": "Farewell Message"
}
```

**Field Descriptions:**
- `type`: Must be `"farewell-claim-package"` (identifies format to claimer)
- `owner`: Message creator's wallet address
- `messageIndex`: ID of the message within owner's message list
- `recipients`: Array of email addresses (one entry per recipient)
- `skShare`: Hex-encoded on-chain half of AES-128 key (generated randomly)
- `encryptedPayload`: AES-128-GCM packed format: `0x` + IV(12 bytes) + ciphertext + GCM-tag
- `contentHash`: keccak256(decrypted message content) — stored on-chain for verification
- `subject`: Email subject line

## Decryption Flow (Recipient Side)

The claimer does NOT decrypt the message — only the **recipient** can, using their off-chain secret (s').

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│         MESSAGE DECRYPTION (farewell-decrypter / web UI)          │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                  │
│  claim_package.skShare   (on-chain half, in JSON attachment)     │
│  +                                                               │
│  recipient.s'            (off-chain half, from sender)           │
│  ═════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════  │
│  sk = skShare XOR s'     (AES-128 decryption key)               │
│                                                                  │
│  sk + encryptedPayload (AES-128-GCM)                             │
│  └─> Decrypt at farewell.world/decrypt/ or CLI tool            │
│      Format: 0x + IV(12 bytes) + ciphertext + GCM-tag          │
│      ═════════════════════════════════════════════              │
│      Yields: plaintext message content                          │
│                                                                  │
│  keccak256(plaintext) == contentHash ✓                           │
│  (recipient can verify against on-chain stored hash)             │
│                                                                  │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Public Signals (What the Proof Proves)

The zk-email circuit produces a Groth16 proof with 3 public signals:

```
publicSignals[0] = Poseidon(recipient_email_normalized)
                   Recipients: alice@example.com → Poseidon("alice@example.com")
                   (normalized: lowercased, whitespace stripped)

publicSignals[1] = DKIM_Key_Hash
                   SHA3-256(dkim_public_key_from_email_header)
                   Proves email was signed by a trusted DKIM key
                   Verified against trusted DKIM registry on-chain

publicSignals[2] = Content_Hash
                   keccak256(email_body_content)
                   Must match claim_package.contentHash
                   Embedded in email as Farewell-Hash marker
```

## Contract Verification

When the `_verifyZkEmailProof()` function is called:

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│          CONTRACT VERIFICATION FLOW                            │
├────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                │
│  Input: DeliveryProofJson {                                   │
│    owner, messageIndex, recipients[], proof {pA,pB,pC,...}   │
│  }                                                             │
│                                                                │
│  1. Load on-chain message m = messages[owner][messageIndex]   │
│                                                                │
│  2. For each recipient in recipients[]:                       │
│     ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐  │
│     │ a. publicSignals[0] == m.recipientEmailHashes[i]?   │  │
│     │    (Proves correct recipient)                        │  │
│     │                                                      │  │
│     │ b. Is publicSignals[1] in trustedDkimKeys registry?  │  │
│     │    (Proves authentic DKIM signature)                │  │
│     │                                                      │  │
│     │ c. publicSignals[2] == m.payloadContentHash?        │  │
│     │    (Proves correct message content)                 │  │
│     │                                                      │  │
│     │ d. Verify(proof, verificationKey) == true?          │  │
│     │    (Proves zk-email circuit integrity)              │  │
│     │                                                      │  │
│     │ If ALL checks pass:                                 │  │
│     │   ✓ Set provenRecipients bitmap bit i to 1         │  │
│     │   ✓ Emit ProofVerified(owner, messageIndex, i)     │  │
│     └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘  │
│                                                                │
│  3. When all N recipients proven (provenRecipients == 2^N-1): │
│     ✓ claimReward() becomes callable                          │
│     ✓ Initiates reward transfer                               │
│                                                                │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## DeliveryProofJson Format

The proof JSON uploaded to the contract for each recipient:

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "type": "farewell-delivery-proof",
  "owner": "0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890",
  "messageIndex": 0,
  "recipients": [
    {
      "recipientIndex": 0,
      "email": "alice@example.com",
      "proof": {
        "pA": ["0x...", "0x..."],
        "pB": [["0x...", "0x..."], ["0x...", "0x..."]],
        "pC": ["0x...", "0x..."],
        "publicSignals": [
          "0x1234...",
          "0x5678...",
          "0xabcd..."
        ]
      }
    },
    {
      "recipientIndex": 1,
      "email": "bob@example.com",
      "proof": {
        "pA": ["0x...", "0x..."],
        "pB": [["0x...", "0x..."], ["0x...", "0x..."]],
        "pC": ["0x...", "0x..."],
        "publicSignals": [
          "0x1234...",
          "0x5678...",
          "0xabcd..."
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "metadata": {
    "generatedAt": "2026-02-24T15:30:45.123Z",
    "toolVersion": "farewell-claimer v1.0.0"
  }
}
```

**Field Descriptions:**
- `pA`, `pB`, `pC`: Groth16 proof elliptic curve points (BN254)
- `publicSignals`: The 3 public signals output by the circuit
- `recipientIndex`: Position in the original recipients[] array
- `email`: Recipient email address (for reference and verification)

## Multi-Recipient Bitmap

The contract tracks proof completion using a bitmap:

```
N = number of recipients in message
provenRecipients = uint256 bitmap

For each proven recipient at index i:
  ┌─ Set bit i to 1
  │
  provenRecipients |= (1 << i)

Example: 3 recipients, all proven
  Bit:  0 1 2
       ├─────┤
  Value: 1 1 1  →  uint256(0b111) = 7

Reward claimable when:
  provenRecipients == (2^N - 1)

  For N=3: (1 << 3) - 1 = 0b111 = 7 ✓
```

## Current Status: Beta

**Important:** The current implementation is in beta with placeholder values for some components:

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│               CURRENT BETA IMPLEMENTATION                     │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                              │
│  ⚠ Groth16 Proof (pA, pB, pC): All zeros (placeholder)    │
│    When implemented: Real zk-email circuit output          │
│                                                              │
│  ⚠ Recipient Hash (publicSignals[0]):                      │
│    Current: SHA3-256(email_normalized)                     │
│    When implemented: Poseidon(email_normalized)            │
│                                                              │
│  ⚠ DKIM Key Hash (publicSignals[1]): All zeros (placeholder)
│    When implemented: SHA3-256(dkim_public_key)             │
│                                                              │
│  ✓ Content Hash (publicSignals[2]): Real value             │
│    Already: keccak256(decrypted_payload)                   │
│                                                              │
│  ⚠ On-Chain Verifier: Not deployed                         │
│    Contract has placeholder _verifyZkEmailProof()          │
│    When implemented: Full Groth16 pairing check            │
│                                                              │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Integration with zk-email Circuit

When the real zk-email circuit is integrated:

1. **Input (.eml file)**: Full email with headers and MIME body
2. **Circuit Logic**:
   - Extract DKIM-Signature header
   - Verify DKIM signature against sender's public key
   - Extract and normalize TO field (recipient email)
   - Hash recipient email with Poseidon
   - Extract email body
   - Verify Farewell-Hash marker matches content hash
3. **Output (Public Signals)**:
   - publicSignals[0]: Poseidon hash of recipient email
   - publicSignals[1]: SHA3-256 of DKIM public key
   - publicSignals[2]: Content hash from Farewell-Hash marker
4. **Proof Generation**: Groth16 proof (pA, pB, pC) proving knowledge of the witness

## Data Flow Through System

```
┌──────────────┐
│ Farewell UI  │ Sends encrypted message → stores emailHashes
│ (Web App)    │ and payloadContentHash on-chain
└───────┬──────┘
        │ [1] Claim package JSON
        ↓
┌──────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ farewell-claimer (Python CLI)            │
│ [2] Send email to recipient              │
│     (attaches claim package JSON)        │
│ [3] Save .eml file                       │
│ [4] Generate proof structure             │
└───────┬──────────────────────────────────┘
        │ [5] DeliveryProofJson + .eml
        ↓
┌──────────────┐
│ Farewell UI  │ [6] Upload proof JSON
│ (Web App)    │ [7] Call _verifyZkEmailProof() on-chain
│              │ [8] Bitmap updated for recipient
└───────┬──────┘
        │ After all recipients proven
        ↓
┌──────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Smart Contract (Farewell.sol)            │
│ [9] claimReward() transfers ETH          │
└──────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Security Properties

**Proven:**
- Email was signed by a DKIM-verified server (no forgery possible)
- Recipient email matches on-chain commitment (no address spoofing)
- Message content matches stored hash (no tampering possible)
- Claimer performed actual delivery (attestation of delivery)

**Not Proven:**
- Recipient actually read or understood the message
- No coercion or fraud in message creation
- No key material compromise during transit

## Related Documentation

- [Protocol Specification](protocol.md) — Full protocol design and user lifecycle
- [Contract API Reference](contract-api.md) — Function signatures, events, and errors
- [Building a Client](building-a-client.md) — TypeScript examples for integration
- [Claimer User Guide](https://github.com/farewell-world/farewell-claimer/blob/main/docs/claimer-guide.md) — Step-by-step claiming workflow
- [zk.email Documentation](https://docs.zk.email/) — Circuit design and verification
